# 0.5.1 / 2012-07-20

* Extracted the language part in a separate gisele-language gem.

# 0.5.0 / 2012-02-26

* Major enhancements

  * All s-expression tools have been moved to a separated project called `Sexpr` (see
    https://github.com/blambeau/sexpr). This implies a lot of changes here, but mostly
    to private APIs. In particular, the commandline tool and the language grammar have not
    changed.
  * A --glts option has been added to the gisele commandline tool, that outputs a guarded
    labeled transition system. The option follows the g-hMSC -> g-LTS semantics defined
    in [Dam09, Lam11].

* Breaking changes

  * `ToGraph` has been moved under `Gisele::Compiling` instead of `Gisele::Language`.
  * `Language::AST::Node#dot_attributes` has been removed as it is very specific to the
    ToGraph compiler and not a language construction.
  * In the same vein, language/grammar.dot.yml -> compiling/to_graph.yml
  * Also, `Language::DOT_ATTRIBUTES` -> `Compiling::ToGraph::DOT_ATTRIBUTES`

# 0.4.0 / 2012-02-20

* Major enhancements

  * The grammar is going to be stable very soon now (expect backward compatible additions,
    maybe). As an helper to work with the grammar, a YAML file describing the structure of
    the AST can be found in lib/gisele/language/grammar.sexp.yml

* Breaking changes

  * The :nop statement has been renamed :nop_st.
  * The kind of the AST nodes for fluent and tracking variable definitions have been
    renamed :fluent_def and :trackvar_def. This is actually a bugfix but that might break
    other code relying on 0.3.0.

# 0.3.0 / 2012-02-20

* Major enhancements

  * The ugly "refinement ... end" construction has been removed. See info in the breaking
    changes section below.
  * The grammar now allows a task definition to contain the definition of sub tasks. The
    idiomatic place is after fluent and trackvar definitions and before the refinement.

* Minor enhancements

  * The --graph option now outputs one graph for each task_def in the unit. Previously
    only the graph of the last task definition was printed.

* Bugfixes

  * Missing edges for absent else clauses are now added to the graph generated by
    the --graph option (ToGraph).

* Breaking changes

  * The syntax and AST of a task definition has changed. The "refinement ... end"
    construct has been removed and replaced by an explicit process statement. Accordingly,
    the nodes task_refinement and task_signature have been removed as well. The AST
    signature of a task definition is now as follows:

            [:task_def, "TaskName", (fluent_def, trackvar_def, task_def)*, explicit_statement]

# 0.2.0 / 2012-02-17

* Enhancements

  * A --graph option has been added to the main `gisele` shell command. It outputs a graph
    in the graphviz/dot format representing a process as a box-and-arrow workflow.

* Breaking changes

  * Boolean literals (true, false) are now explicitly represented in boolean expressions,
    under a :bool_lit AST node.
  * All statements and clauses relying on boolean conditions (if_st, while_st,
    elsif_clause, when_clause) have now an explicit :bool_expr node as first child.
    Previously, a subnode of the boolean grammar was used.

# 0.1.0 / 2012-02-17

* Enhancements

  * The main `gisele` command now accepts a --no-sugar option that removes syntactic
    sugar. This option is limited to the rewriting of `if` statements as guarded `case`
    commands for now. Additional rewriting could be added in the future.
  * All AST nodes (obtained via `Gisele.ast` or similar) now include the module
    `Gisele::Language::AST::Node` which contains a few utilities.

* Breaking changes

  * The language package has been reorganized and is now considered as belonging to
    the private API. Further changes there will therefore not b considered as Breaking
    changes in the future (expect the structure of the AST, of course).
    The `Gisele.parse` and `Gisele.ast` methods belong to the public API and are therefore
    the way to (parse / get an AST) from a process file / source.

  * The top AST element of a process file is always a :unit. The latter may contain
    one ore more task definitions. Import/include nodes will probably be added later
    and authorized at the beginning of the file.

  * The following syntax nodes have been renamed:

            :varref     -> :var_ref
            :or         -> :bool_or
            :and        -> :bool_and
            :not        -> :bool_not
            :if         -> :if_st
            :else       -> :else_clause
            :elsif      -> :elsif_clause
            :while      -> :while_st
            :seq        -> :seq_st
            :par        -> :par_st
            :task_call  -> :task_call_st
            :task       -> :task_def
            :signature  -> :task_signature
            :refinement -> :task_refinement

# 0.0.1 / 2012-02-16

* Enhancements

  * Birthday!